If your child has a hernia,
it means the intestine or bowel
is bulging through a weak
area in the abdomen.
Sometimes the muscles in the
abdomen do not come together
completely before birth.
This leaves a small opening
below the skin.
An umbilical hernia
is an opening in the belly button area
and an inguinal hernia is an opening
in the groin area.
A hernia is usually diagnosed
because of a bulge
sometimes with pain or discomfort
in the belly button or groin area.
If your child has a hernia,
it needs to eventually close.
If it does not,
the intestines or other contents
of the abdomen may
push through the opening.
Movement of food can be affected.
The intestines may become blocked,
causing pain, redness, swelling, and vomiting.
Pinching may restrict blood flow,
which can lead to other complications.